{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Scott Allen Funkhouser\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 Updated January 2017\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Education\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2013-2019\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\b PhD, Genetics and Quantitative Biology}; Michigan State University\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2007-2011\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\b BSc, Biochemistry}; University of Washington\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2005-2007\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\b Valedictorian}; Graham-Kapowsin HS\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Research Positions\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2014 - Present\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\b Graduate Research Assistant}; Mentor: Catherine Ernst PhD; Michigan State University\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\i Investigating the role of A-to-I RNA editing in mammalian genomes and developing methods for the genomic prediction of complex phenotypes.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2012 - 2013\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\b Research Scientist I}; Mentor: Mary Philip MD PhD; University of Washington\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\i Investigated the role of a heme exporter, FLVCR, in the development of T lymphocytes.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2010 - 2011\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\b Undergraduate Research Assistant}; Mentor: Chris Hague PhD; University of Washington\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\i Studied novel binding partners to pertinent G-Protein coupled receptors.}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Awards, Grants, Scholarships\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b USDA Pre-doctoral Fellowship}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i 2017-2019} \u8226? {\i $95,000}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b ISAG Travel Award}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i $2,000 to attend the 2016 ISAG Conference in Salt Lake City, UT}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b NSIF Graduate Student Travel Award}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i $500 to attend 2016 NSIF meeting in Raleigh, NC}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Fred and Lucille Stamper Academic College Scholarship}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i 2007 - 2011} \u8226? {\i $16,256}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Memberships\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b ASAS PhD Student Member}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i 2015 \u8211- Present}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Genetics Student Organization Officer}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 2016-Present: {\i President}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 2014-2015: {\i Second-year Representative}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 2015-2016: {\i Third-year Representative and Social Chair}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Selected Graduate Coursework\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Molecular Biology (BMB 801)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Eukaryotic Molecular Genetics (MMG 835)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab R Programming for Quantitative Genetics (ANS 824)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Advanced Statistics for Biologists (STT 814)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Intro to Statistical Genetics (STT 855)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Bayesian Inference using MCMC (FW 849)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Skills\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Programming}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 Listed in order from most skilled to least skilled\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab The R language\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab C++\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Bash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Fortran\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Python\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Java\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 Familiar with others for web development including:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Markdown\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab HTML\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab CSS\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Javascript\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Bioinformatics}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 Experience using various tools, including:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Bowtie\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Tophat\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Picard\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab SAMTools\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab bcftools\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Variant Effect Predictor\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab UCSC Genome Browser\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Software development}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Git\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Github\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab R Studio\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab GNU Make\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 R development packages:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab devtools\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab roxygen\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab testthat\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Literate programming}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab knitr\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Rmarkdown\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Shiny\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Molecular Biology}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Flow cytometry\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab immunostaining\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab qPCR\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab PCR\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab molecular cloning and techniques therein\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab cell culture\sa180\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Publications\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab {\b Funkhouser SA}, Bates RO, Ernst CW, Newcom D, Steibel JP. Estimation of genome-wide and locus-specific breed composition in pigs. TAS. 2017; doi: 10.2527/tas2016.0003\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Zhao D, Hamilton JP, Hardigan M, Yin D, He T, Vaillancourt B, Reynoso M, {\b Funkhouser SA} et al. Analysis of ribosome-associated mRNAs in rice reveals the importance of transcript size and GC content in translation. G3 (Bethesda). 2016;7: 203\u8211-219. doi:10.1534/g3.116.036020\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Philip M, {\b Funkhouser SA}, Chiu EY, Phelps SR, Delrow JJ, Cox J, et al. Heme Exporter FLVCR Is Required for T Cell Development and Peripheral Survival. J Immunol. 2015; doi:10.4049/jimmunol.1402172\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Pending Publications\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab {\b Funkhouser SA}, Steibel JP, Bates RO, Raney NE, Schenk D, Ernst CW. Evidence for Transcriptome-wide RNA Editing Among Sus scrofa PRE-1 SINE Elements. bioRxiv. 2017; Available: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://biorxiv.org/content/early/2017/01/05/096321.abstract"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
here
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Reeb PD, {\b Funkhouser SA}, Ernst CW, Steibel JP. Assessing genotype call accuracy from RNA sequencing data.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Conference Presentations and Posters\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Funkhosuer SA}, Bates RO, CW Ernst, Newcom D, Steibel JP. (2016) Estimation of the composition of four U.S. swine breeds using genomic data. ePoster presented at the 2016 ASDA/AAS Joint Annual Meeting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Funkhouser SA}, Steibel JP, Bates RO, Raney NE, Ernst CW. (2016) RNA editing in swine is associated with PRE-1 retrotransposons. ePoster presented at the 2016 International Society for Animal Genetics Conference.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Funkhouser SA}, Steibel JP, Bates RO, Raney NE, Ernst CW. (2015) Evidence of RNA editing in pig longissimus dorsi muscle. Oral presentation given at the American Dairy Science / American Society of Animal Science Midwest Conference. \sa180\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:sfunkhouser@gmail.com"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
sfunkhouser@gmail.com
}}}
 \u8226? (253)-720-2797 \u8226? 474 S. Shaw Lane, Room 1205 - East Lansing, Michigan, USA\par}
}
